# books-app-spring-2021
Here are my response to the questions: 

1.	I think I really learned a lot by doing the final project since I didn’t get to the homeworks and started out with less knowledge/experience. Some things that I enjoyed learning and using include delegation and passing information via segues/tab bar controller – how to effectively pass data from one screen to another really tripped me up throughout the project and I had fun switching between different methods and testing each one out. Another thing that I especially enjoyed doing was using MapKit. I’ve always thought that a map and/or globe is a great way to help people visualize their knowledge of the world (ie the books that they’ve read), and now that I am beginning to become familiar with things like MKAnnotations I will be able to do more things in the future.
2.	I reviewed table views since I needed to use it for the book list – just an aside, but I didn’t realize how prominent table views feature in all kinds of apps today until I learned how to make them and started noticing the table views on my phone. I also went over segue and especially the part about passing information and prepare for segue. I also needed to review the networking part since my app relies on an API containing the world’s countries and their coordinates. I also reviewed the UISearchBar lecture because I had wanted to put in a search function for the “country” section of the new book adding page, but I couldn’t figure out how to implement a drop-down menu the way I wanted.
3.	I do plan on refining the project. There are a lot of things that I think can be added: for example, I want to make a “quotes” page that is independent of books so users could always keep track of the inspiring sentences that they chance upon here and there. I also want to improve the book-map coordination where a new book shows up as a coordinate on the map. A limitation of this app is that each country name is only associated with one coordinate value, so that books with the same country will not show up very well. I don’t know as of now how to improve this, but I do want to look into it in the summer. It would be cool, for example, to associate a book with the birthplace of the author, such that it can be specified to city/province/region in the best cases. Also, to be perfectly honest, I still haven’t figured out how constraint works yet and every time I’ve tried it the results have been disastrous. The first thing that I do this summer regarding iOS dev is definitely to first understand how to use constraints and add constraints to this app. 
(ps. During the demo there was a bug with getting the current date, which has been fixed in the submitted code)
4.	 I really enjoyed working on this project and struggling through somewhat convoluted logics that I haven’t encountered previously. This is my first time making a mobile application and I find the thought process behind to be very different but entertaining. I know I haven’t put my best foot forward in this class but I really want to thank you (if Jerry’s reading this) for teaching us this semester and allowing us so much autonomy to do the stuff that we want! I remember the first time that I opened XCode and thought to myself “what the fuck is all this?” Well, today I ask myself that all the time, but it really does feel like I’ve gotten the hang of things. This has been my emotional support project for the past few weeks (even though the accidental delete definitely caused some trauma) and I hope I will be able to keep doing iOS development, leisurely or professionally. Thanks again!
